relatives of Israeli captives held by
Hamas have reacted with Fury at a
meeting with the Prime Minister about
the Relentless bombing of Gaza where
their loved ones are trapped some are
demanding Benjamin Netanyahu Ste down
what do people in Israel think this is
Inside
Story
[Music]
hello and welcome to the program I'm NE
Barker as Israel relentlessly bombs Gaza
as well as 2.3 million Palestinians
Israelis held captive by Hamas are
trapped in the strip the war is a
catastrophe for Palestinians with tens
of thousands injured or killed and
hundreds of thousands forced from their
homes in Israel there's a tragedy of a
different kind the plight of the
captives dominates the political and
news agenda with major rallies calling
for their release some have been freed
in return for Palestinian prisoners but
138 remain trapped in Gaza prime
minister Benjamin Netanyahu says
bringing them home safely is a priority
but he says so while his military bombs
Gaza without Mercy Sympathy for the
captives is huge in Israel and indeed
elsewhere in a few moments we'll be
discussing their plight and the
political dangers it presents for
Netanyahu and his far-right government
these came into sharp focus at a meeting
he held with relative and his War
cabinet increasing anxiety among some
about the fate of their loved ones fter
Monahan
reports angry relatives of Israelis
taken captive by Hamas had demanded a
face Toof face with prime minister
Benjamin
Netanyahu you show me but the closed
door meeting with the war cabinet didn't
have the outcome they'd hoped for
Reports say some relatives called for
Netanyahu to resign because Israel is
bombing Gaza while their loved ones are
being held there
we have to do and he has to do
everything to bring them back
immediately
everything the week-long ceasefire with
Hamas in late November saw dozens of
captives
released Israel says around 130 are
still being held in Gaza but Hamas says
it won't free anymore until Israeli
forces stop bombing Palestinians and the
Gaza
Strip it also wants all Palestinians
released from Israeli jails a price some
relatives believe is worth
paying the simple answer is I would like
them to give all the Palestinian
prisoners back
to Gaza or wherever they should be the
Israeli government says one of its
objectives in the war is to bring back
the captives alive but that would almost
certainly require further agreements
with Hamas which Netanyahu has pledged
to
eliminate
I say to our friends in the world who
are pressing for a quick end to the war
the only way to end the war and end it
quickly is to use overwhelming Force
against Hamas overwhelming force and
destroy
it Hamas says several captives have been
killed in Israeli air strikes across
Gaza we hold Israeli Prime Minister
Netanyahu fully responsible for the
lives of Israeli
hostages
opinion polls have shown significant
support among the Israeli public for the
war but a recent survey suggests more
than half of respondents were in favor
of extending the ceasefire with Hamas to
enable the release of more captives so
unless there's another breakthrough the
ordeal of those being held and the agony
of the relatives looks set to continue
Von mahun for inside
[Music]
story so let's bring in our gu guest in
the Israeli town of pesah is Udi goren a
cousin of one of the captives detained
in Gaza who has taken part in the bring
them home now campaigns in West
Jerusalem is gearon Basin a former
hostage negotiator and founder of the
Israel Palestine Center for research and
information that's a joint public policy
Think Tank and in Tel Aviv is AKA Elder
a political analyst veteran journalist
and author of Lords of the land the war
over Israel's settlements in the
occupied territories a warm welcome to
all of you udia if I can start by with
you of course we appreciate the the huge
uh amount of Anguish this has caused for
the likes of you and other families who
have been affected by the captive
situation those captives of course held
in in Gaza can I start by asking you
what it was like to find out that your
cousin had been kidnapped and indeed
taken to
Gaza yeah um it was a complete shock
it's you know it's it's something that's
so far removed from our world that it's
something you hear that happens in you
know in in developing countries and in
places that are not considered like we
consider ourselves you know a western
Faith Sovereign democracy um and it's
just a situation that's that's
completely taken everyone out of balance
to have you know your cousin not
detained being kept prisoner he's a
civilian being held hostage
it's unimaginable to to this very day
it's it's
unimaginable and AKA if I can bring you
in in your view how receptive has the
Netanyahu War cabinet been in responding
to the demands that have been growing by
the Day in Israel to secure the release
of these captives
well n i I think that it depends which
uh Network they watch and which
newspaper they read uh netan is very
busy these days actually his trial has
just resumed and U he thinks about his
own future and this is the context that
you have to put into your
question um they are very careful to
meet the uh family
but at the same time they haven't got
anything to offer them like in this
meeting yesterday uh they want to have
it both ways they say well uh we will
not stop until we wipe the Hamas off the
uh face of the Earth but at the same
time we will do everything to bring the
people back they
know netan and Gan the minister of
defense that they are responsible
personally because it's not just people
who were uh lost in a war or they were
taken hostage in war it's a blunder it's
a huge blunder and the blood of 1,200
people is on their hands and the future
and the whereabouts of now about 200
civilians and soldiers right that uh we
know very little about What's happen to
them right now while we talk and gersan
just responding to something that AKA
mentioned there this uh final meeting
that uh Benjamin Netanyahu granted to
some of the family members of those held
in Gaza that was on Tuesday in which he
reportedly said it's currently not
possible right now to bring them all
back at once from a negotiating
perspective what does it mean for the
families to hear a message like that
coming from the prime minister right
first of all I think it's important to
note that it's probably the first time
the Prime Minister told the truth
because the price that Hamas is
demanding for bringing all the P all the
hostages home is a price that the
government of Israel the Army the people
of Israel I sense are not willing to pay
at this time it's a double price one is
freeing some uh
7,600 Palestinian prisoners including
559 of them serving life sentences for
killing Israelis another 130 of the
terrorists who were caught in Israel on
October 7th but Hamas is also requiring
a cessation of the war meaning that they
would emerge from the tunnels and their
bunkers being Victorious and this is a
price that Israel is not willing to pay
so it seems very correct because the
only way of bringing all the hostages
home is through a negotiated agreement
with Hamas otherwise it's going to have
to rely either on a partial agreement or
on military
operations aimed at search and rescue
which are very dangerous right we'll get
on to talking about the prospects of a
negotiated solution to all of this but
first Udi can I ask you from what you've
heard of the experiences of people who
have been released from Gaza what
concerns you the most about their
experiences what really concerns us all
is that they might share the same fate
as their captives because we now know
that they're affected by the Israeli
bombings even though we know 100% that
the military is not going to strike
anywhere they think there might be a
hostage and yet they don't know
everything so we know they're affected
by it we know that they're not only
might be injured by it but it also
scares them to death as they don't
really know what's happening around them
they could be taken anywhere they have
been moved around and aside from that
the you know the the daily life it's
they're not on vacation they're some of
them have been tormented uh there's no
food in the Gaza Strip for everyone let
alone for them and the the living
conditions are dire those who were held
in the tunnels suffer tremendously from
the health risks that you can imagine
there are in staying in a damp uh tunnel
with no air no proper ventilation with
unbelievable humidity um and every day
that passes is just further risk to
their Liv to their actual survival G in
response to that whichever way you want
to rotate this whatever happened on
October the 7th has to be classed as an
absolute failure of Israeli intelligence
Military Intelligence given the amount
of money International money
particularly from the United States
that's poured into propping up the
Israeli Armed Forces reports also of a
number of Israelis were killed by the
Israeli military itself how much
confidence is there in Israel about this
current bombing camp campaign in Gaza
when it comes to securing something
resembling a lasting
peace yeah unfortunately I think that
too many Israelis believe the Israeli
government the spokespeople the army
military people the minister of defense
and the Prime Minister when they say
that this bombing the renewal of the war
will create more pressure on Hamas in
order to release the hostages where it
could actually be the quite opposite we
don't know everyone is guessing it is a
guessing game of military people against
other people like myself who who don't
buy this line that the military pressure
in increases the chances of releasing
the hostages I think it might actually
be the the quite opposite and it might
actually lead to the death of too many
of these hostages and udy I mean the
majority of of UN members even the
United States are now showing a degree
of of disqui about about the war that's
currently being waged in Gaza with this
in mind how receptive do you think the
Israeli government is to public
International criticism of what's
happening I think I would largely agree
with what garon has said um I think that
the the general public opinion and it's
also reflected by the government is that
aside from the fact that uh you know we
suffered such a tremendous loss and loss
of faith in on October 7th but people in
is is are really scared they are scared
and they're demanding the government to
persist and I don't think that everybody
realizes the repercussions that we're
we're uh we're discussing right now that
these two Targets do not go together and
the one of the messages we're trying to
convey is that we think that in order to
move forward Israel must deal with the
Western border and the safety of its uh
civilians and absolutely something must
change in this Regional order but with
this objective in mind and when you have
another objective that's rescuing 136
lives one is time sensitive and the
other one would definitely take months
at least months to do so the the
priority between the two must be clear
when there are civilians lives on the
line
that every day may be their laugh right
I can see all nodding your heads to what
UD has just said Gan if I can ask you
this what happens to this pervading
sense of righteous indignation when it
comes to perpetuating this conflict to
reach its Ultimate Game of destroying
herass that of course is what Netanyahu
wants to
do I I think that the fact that Israel
faced the biggest trauma in its history
in fact the biggest trauma of the Jewish
people since the Holocaust impacts
directly on the decision making of the
government the Army and with the support
of the people the overriding objective
of the war to dismantle hamas's ability
to other govern and control the
territory of Gaza again seems to me to
be overriding the desire of the public
to bring the hostages home there was a
brief period during the time when the
hostages were coming home when there was
a ceasefire that it seemed that that was
the number one priority but when the
torture of every night watching whether
or not hamamasu is going to release
these people and the humiliation that
they went through as they were being
released created the mood once again in
the country where the wart War objective
seems to be once again overriding
unfortunately for the lives of the
hostages and their families who are
continuing to go through this torture
every day AKA your thoughts on that
where this sense of righteous
indignation currently stands in
Israel well I I believe that we have to
put it and this is where the Americans
are putting this uh in in a broader
context Israel has also to offer the uh
facilitators of a possible deal uh
primarily Qatar Egypt and the United
States how Israel sees the day after uh
Hamas of course is now under great
pressure
they have uh thousands of fatalities
and ke let me let me ask you this
because how Israel perceives the
so-called day after also is impacted on
how Israel sees the Palestinians going
forward as well is there much sympathy
towards the pl of Palestinians in Gaza
and indeed the West Bank since October
the 7th given of course the high
civilian death toll in Gaza and of
course the thousands of Palestinians
continue to be detained in the West Bank
it's a very good question that uh if you
put it forward to prime minister netan
he will tell you it's not the time to
deal with it as well as with the series
of blunders and the War uh but the
United States I understand insist on
getting much clearer answers because uh
this today uh is the 61st day since uh
the uh terrible incident
in uh uh in around Gaza but the the
Americans and the qataris who are deeply
involved in the
negotiations for the deal that will
bring the uh captives back home they
also need to know how Israel sees the
the end game and uh the Israeli public
needs to know that because the deal to
get up now the captives is part of a
comprehensive settlement that will bring
also about half a million soldiers back
home and you need to understand every
Israeli family knows someone who was
either killed or kidnapped on October
7th so everybody is personally involved
in this let let's take a look at the
negotiating process in a bit more detail
Gan returning to that I mean because for
seven days it seemed like the process
was wor didn't it until of course it
rapidly collapsed Israel blames Hamas
for not handing over military captives
Hamas says it wants to increase the
number of its prisoners released in
return for widening the category of
captives release of course there is a
precedent for this you were involved in
it directly in the exchange of galad
Shalit the Israeli soldier who was held
for five years by Hamas and he was
exchanged for
1,027 Palestinians why are swaps on this
scale or indeed all for all swaps
apparently out of the question right
now I I think that the negotiations
didn't break down over the new demands
of Hamas for a l larger number of
prisoners to be released I think that is
doable and I think the Israelis will
have no choice but to agree to that what
I understand is the main problem is that
there remains 14 or 15 young women
between the age of 20 and 30 who remain
as hostages in Gaza and they were the
ones that Israel wanted to bring out and
according to what the intelligence has
been telling us they've undergone
abusive attacks and rapes sexual abuse
by their captors and the captors the
Hamas no longer want to release them
because of the stories that they will
have to tell this is what we understand
is the reason and if this is the case
this is beyond something that Israel is
capable of negotiating on there will be
another deal made I believe there's a
chance for it to release the elderly the
young the the people who are not
Soldiers the sick and the wounded and
Israel released hundreds and maybe
thousands of pris rers in exchange for
them but this story of the young women
is very very painful and if it's true
it's horrendous right as far we as we
are aware gean that is now subject to a
un investigation looking to allegations
of war crimes on on both sides of the
Divide because they have no access right
the international V cross right it it
has also been uh denied by herass um we
need to obviously apply a degree of
healthy skepticism okay well there's no
reason for us to believe Hamas in its
denial there absolutely no reason
whatsoever we know that there was mass
raping that took place at the music
festival in raahim on the day that the
massacre of 370 young Israelis took
place there as well right well I hope uh
given the circumstances and
investigation if given access if given
more information is able to
independently verify this UD if I could
ask you this what the perception would
be uh for Israelis for there to be a
much wider much broader number of
Palestinians released if that meant the
possibility of all the captives in Gaza
also
beinged I think that it would stri it
would spark a huge discussion in Israel
but overall we know that the there is a
very large support in the public and and
and awareness that this would have to be
the price of uh the return of the
hostages there are more people that are
for it than against it and of course
this is something that would have to be
communicated well by the government let
alone you know that we are now living
through this trauma
of which is the one that initiated this
attack and was one of the people
released on the gilad chalit um the
gilad shal deal and yet Israel has ways
to not only to communicate and make this
happen but also also to be much smarter
about the just to remind our viewers
just to remind our viewers Yaya sinoa
now perhaps one of the most Wanted Hamas
figures in Gaza at the moment who was
released as part of the swap with gillad
Shalit um AA if I could bring you in on
this because however you look at this it
looks as if the fate of Israelis the
fate of Palestinians on both sides are
inextricably linked there is no way you
can solve one situation without
resolving the other
yes and uh I I believe that uh both
sides are looking for an opportunity to
raise a flag uh even if it's a white
flag uh but at the same time they need
the victory image or the victory footage
and as you mentioned uh
capturing or making him raise a white
flag can bring an end to uh the tragedy
on both sides do do you see that do you
see that as being regarded as a
strategic victory for for nyaho to be
able to claim if he is able to locate
Yaya Sina would that be
enough well strategic Victory is putting
an end to the conflict and promoting a
two-state solution negotiated solution I
I think that this is a kind of a media
victory for netan and maybe for Hamas
everybody needs to be able to declare
Victory after so many fatalities and
such a big damage to Gaza and to the
Israeli economy and Prestige right
gentlemen as as we approach the end of
the program I I I want you to give us if
possible a brief final thought on
perhaps what needs to be said to the
Israeli War cabinet that isn't perhaps
being heard loudly enough at the moment
if I could start with you
AKA uh I think that the Israeli cabinet
is in a big dilemma actually I don't
envy them uh it's doomed if you do it's
doomed if you don't the expectations of
the average Israeli in the street is uh
to get the captives back but that it
will not happen to us again and I don't
think that anybody there is no Israeli
politician uh academic or a journalist
that can guarantee uh even you know
somebody was suggesting to pour water to
pump water from the sea and U and pour
it into the tunnels but what the
captives out there so okay uh I don't
see any easy solution right no easy
solution gon if I can bring you in we're
in the closing couple of minutes gon
very briefly right well I'll tell you
what I told members of the war cabinet
they have to make a an offer to Hamas
that they can't refuse and what I mean
by that is that we need to make an offer
to bring home at least all the civilian
hostages the women who are left there
the elderly the sick and the wounded at
least those and that's more than half of
the hostages and they have to be willing
to tell Hamas what they're willing to do
which is a large number of prisoners in
exchange okay thank you udy last few
seconds think outside the box Israel is
renowned for making things happen in
face of adversity and in face of
situations that are impossible soide the
Box bring all of them back home okay
well thank you all uh for your thoughts
throughout this discussion thanks to all
our guests Udi guran gersin Basin and
AKA Elder and thank you too for watching
you can see the program again anytime by
visiting our website ala.com and for
further discussion go to our Facebook
page that's facebook.com / AJ Inside
Story and you can also join the
conversation on X our handle is at AJ
insid story from me NE Barker and the
whole team here right for
now